---
layout: post
title: "Random stuff has been happening lately"
permalink: /post/28387444881.html
---

Ok, so what&#8217;s up dear readers? I&#8217;ve been up to a bunch of random things lately so I&#8217;ll write them down just so I know what I was up to at this time of year later on.

First of all, I got a new job. I guess I&#8217;ll stop freelancing for the time being and focus on my new (awesome) job. Starting 2 weeks ago, I&#8217;ll be working as a &#8220;Graphic Developer&#8221; for the HNSC, which, is a fancy way to say I am a front end developer. I get to play with lots of javascript and are surrounded by amazing people I didn&#8217;t even know about! So yes, lots of new people and cool projects which might actually inspire me to build new and cool things on my own.

Second, I&#8217;ve been getting into javascript a lot lately. Like a serious lot. Even before my new job, I started reading and developing almost exclusively in javascript. I feel like I&#8217;ve been improving a lot constantly these past couple of weeks and am really happy about it. I&#8217;ve read and develop a lot, trying to get my vanilla javascript up to speed and I&#8217;ve been working with a lot of jQuery at work as well so that&#8217;s that. Today I built a jQuery plugin which, doesn&#8217;t do much but it&#8217;s exactly what I needed I&#8217;ll talk more about it once I figure out if I can release it as open source. That&#8217;ll hopefully happen soon.

Third, since I recently started working as a frontend developer, which is almost completely opposite from my old freelancing stuff where I focused on the backend, I decided to start a pears repository of stuff I use often just to keep mental notes and to share with you guys. You can find them here: <a href="http://patterns.martianwabbit.com/">http://patterns.martianwabbit.com/</a>

And I guess that&#8217;s basically it, school is as hard as usual, I am still pretty dumb and I get paid to program for 4 hours on a daily basis, I am doing pretty good these days.
