---
layout: post
title: "The Pandemic"
---

> As the _end_[^1] of the Pandemic approaches, I wanted to write a blog post to
> remind myself of these past 18 months and how we spent our time in exile.
> There isn't really a point to this blog post in general it's mostly a slice
> of my life and a lot of disconnected thoughts.

> I originally started writing this post in August 8th, 2021. It took me a year to
> get around to finishing it but here it is. Better late than never I guess!

## Before The Pandemic

My exile started a bit before the pandemic got to Honduras. Towards the end of
the previous year (2019) I had a cancer scare. It turned out to be nothing but
I developed a lot of anxiety around my health because of it. I had become overly
weary of anything health related and hearing of this SARS-like disease that was
showing up everywhere didn't help. By that time everyone was a bit tired of my
shenanigans and when I asked everyone around me to prepare for it I
(understandably) was not taken very seriously.

Honduras is poor and I knew it wouldn't take much for it's system to collapse.
If even rich countries seem to be struggling it wouldn't really take much for
the same to happen here. I told my mother that if she wanted to visit she'd have
to do so before the first case was reported in Honduras. Once that happened I'd
pretty much lock myself up and isolate for however long it took. She came to
visit a couple of weeks before the first case, just in-case. It sounded like
masks and hand sanitizer would be the first thing to fly off the shelves so I
purchased some preemptively. I figured I was being overly dramatic but better
safe than sorry. Having basic things I could hold to would make my anxiety
easier to control I figured.

As the pandemic seemed to get closer I told everyone my plans of staying indoors
until it was under control, that it might be a bit long but hopefully not more
than a couple of months. The 8th of March, we had Arleth over for brunch, we
talked about the upcoming pandemic over coffee.

On 10th of March, 2020 the first two cases of covid were reported in
Honduras my lock down would begin two days later. The following day I dismissed
the house staff, had them take the day off and go purchase groceries and supplies.
I assured them that they would still receive their salaries and that they would
have job once this was over.

## The first month

Once the first cases were reported everything started moving too fast. By Sunday
every supermarket was swamped with people and supplies started dwindling. I felt
a bit validated knowing I had prepared myself with a couple months worth of
food. That sense of validation didn't really last long.

For the first couple of weeks everything was under strict lockdown and looked
like Honduras wouldn't spiral too bad. Wishful thinking.

The 20th we had a nice break with the release of Animal Crossing: New Horizons.
It came in at the best time, the boredom was settling in and everyone with a
switch was playing it. It felt like a community event, everyone was alone,
playing together. It carried us over a month or two.

By the end of march the food was a little less varied so it seemed like the
right time to resupply. It looked like all supermarkets were booked for
deliveries for a month or so in advanced so we had to get creative. For
non-perishable we used a small supermarket that specialized in organic goods.
It's variety wasn't great and it was really expensive but it allowed us to get
some basics and some not-so-basics while the regular supermarkets got their act
together.

Mid April everything got a lot better. We found a local catering company that
being unable to cater, had started selling vegetables, dairy and eggs. Getting
fresh vegetables for the first time after almost two months gave me back my will
to live.

## The following 4 months

As the pandemic raged on I realized I was not doing too great. I had become a
bit of a hypochondriac and had developed some anxiety. I had been stuck in my
apartment for a while now so it seemed justified. One day I decided I wanted to
get into therapy. I found a nice Colombian psychologist that would treat me
online. It worked out great and after a month or two I felt better and was told
I could stop going.

Whenever I am bored I get started on new hobbies. I had a ton of paint around
the apartment so I started painting. I would experiment quite a bit with
acrylics, I didn't like how glossy they were but it grew on me. I eventually
started drawing over them with markers and developed a bit of a "style". I would
paint quite a bit over the next couple of months.

{% image painting.jpg "One of the many paintings I did over the pandemic. An infinity net over a red background."%}

As the sense of normalcy grew and I had more time off I started playing Call of
Duty with Carlos and Carla. It happened almost by accident but we started
playing a couple of hours every day. It was great fun, they've been my best
friends for the longest time and being able to spend time with them, even if
only online, felt awesome.

Eventually I fell back to my oldest habit, overworking. I decided I wanted to be
more productive and get more done. I had been toying with an idea to help local
companies get their products online. Honduras is really far behind on this sort
of thing and during the pandemic it really showed. I've had an Estonian
e-residency for a while so I used that to incorporate a business and started
working on the app. I would let it sit to focus on my day job soon after.

Up to this point we had been using a small refrigerator I bought back when I
first moved in. It was fine at the beginning but since getting delivery was hard
it made more sense to order more food and store it than try to order when
needed. We got a new fridge which was a pretty large QOL upgrade at the time.
Sounds weird but it really cheered us up.

At this point my anxiety had improved so I decided to let myself drink coffee
again. It's always been a large part of my life so it felt like that'd help me
go back "normal". I decided to make a hobby off it (it technically already was)
and got myself a espresso machine. I named it Pino.

{% image pino.jpg "Pino the espresso machine"%}

I eventually start working on my small side project, a site to simplify selling
online, elmarket.

## The rest of 2020

Very little happened the rest of the year: 

We raised moths.

{% image marimoth.jpg "One of the moths we raised, marimoth"%}

We would raise more moths the following year at around the same time of the
year.

Customs eventually reopened so we bought some extra art supplies. I got a new
camera (Which I called Prismo). I painted some more. My sister suggested we run
a book club, we read one book, tiny fire everywhere, I hated it and decided to
stop book clubbing.

{% image painting2.jpg "Another painting of mine from that time"%}

I took a couple of weeks off in December to try to chill for a bit.

{% image sky.jpg "A picture of the sky"%}

## A New Year
On my first day back after the Christmas break we were told at Azlo that our CEO
was leaving. The following day they announced we would be shutting down. Our
parent company had been sold off and no one really wanted to keep operating
Azlo.

Since I was still stuck home I immediately started interviewing and looking for a
new gig. I found a really nice job at Blueonion Labs. They were doing really
cool things that closely matched the reconciliation stuff I was doing at Azlo. I
would start the week after my birthday. I decided to ignore it that year, it
didn't seem fair to count it.

We got a roomba shortly after, it was surprisingly helpful, we were spending
quite a bit of time cleaning and just having it run everyday made it way easier.

I started working at Blueonion Labs.

We found Pitt, the chunkiest boy. We originally offered him to Edward for
adoption but he didn't want to adopt him. After a couple of days, even though we thought
we had enough cats, we ended up falling in love with him.

{% image pitt.jpg "Pitt, the cat"%}

We finally got our first vaccine shot in August. It was nice, it felt like maybe
it was coming to an end.

A bit later my grandfather died from Covid. My uncle followed a couple of weeks
later. 

I left my job. I was feeling a bit burnt out and depressed.

Towards the end of September we were fully immunized and decided it was time to
start moving on. We started planning a trip, it'd be the third time leaving the
house in 18 months. The other two were for vaccinations.

Shortly before leaving we found Gomita, the newest member of our family. We had
no intentions of adopting another cat at the point but she needed a ton of help
and it didn't seem fair to pin her off on someone else. So we kept her. No
regrets.

{% image gomita.jpg "Gomita, the cat"%}

We left for Europe in October and spent a couple of weeks over there. I had to
go to Estonia to open a bank account for the company I had founded the year
before but we spent the rest of time relaxing and doing normally touristy stuff
(mostly eating).

{% image me.jpg "A picture of the author"%}

[^1]:
    We are about 4 weeks away from being fully immunized which is as far as I
    know, the closest thing to an end there can be for the time being.
